hi it's Jayden from steamy kitchen and
we're making vegetable egg rolls you're
also known as spring rolls but my mom
has always called them egg rolls this is
in fact my mom's famous Chinese April
recipe which I learned from her these
egg rolls are so incredibly light and
crispy super super crispy the filling is
delicate and full of vegetables like
bamboo shoots Chinese black mushrooms
bean sprouts cabbage and carrots and of
all recipes I've ever made this is by
far one of the most popular all right
let's start with cabbage I'm using napa
cabbage but you can use regular cabbage
whatever you'd like if you're using a
package go ahead and cut it down the
middle just like this and go and start
shredding you can also do this in the
food processor but you know what I found
it's just easier to clean to shred them
with a knife then to use a food
processor for the carrots julienne them
with a knife
or food processor or you can buy already
pre-cut match to cut carrots or you can
use my favorite way with this $5 oXXO
julienne tool which does it very very
quickly I use a fork to anchor down the
carrot and look how thin and beautiful
these julienne slices are just going to
cut down the length just a bit
these are canned bamboo shoots you find
them in the Asian aisle I drained them
and I'm just going to run my knife
through them just to make them similar
shape and size as the carrots now for
the mushrooms you can use fresh shiitake
mushrooms if you'd like or really any
type of mushrooms you want but these are
dried Chinese mushroom they come in
dried form just like this and you
rehydrate them by soaking them in water
at incredible flavors as savory deep
mushroom flavor that you really can't
get with just fresh mushrooms so that's
why I love using dried Chinese mushrooms
cut off and discard the tough stem and
then chop up the cap these are bean
sprouts there's a tail and there's a
head and what you want to do is pinch
off and discard the tails which is
really the root and keep the rest of it
when I was little my mom used to make me
do this
all the time it was so
like tedious so you know what I'm sorry
mom I'm not gonna do it but just
throwing it all in heat up a wok or a
large saute pan and adding your ginger
garlic and green onion keep your heat on
low you don't want to burn these
aromatics add in the vegetables
everything but the bean sprouts add the
bean sprouts in later because you want
them to stay crisp and crunchy stir-fry
and now when it's almost towards the end
of the stir-fry adding your bean sprouts
season with soy sauce here's a secret
tip once you're done with the stir-fry
lay everything all the vegetables out on
a baking sheet this cools down the
filling very quickly the reason why this
is important is because if you try to
use hot steaming hot filling to wrap
with it'll make the the skin of the egg
roll really soggy also another tip prop
up the baking sheet so that any extra
oil or sauce or juices collects at the
bottom and you can throw that away
discard that any extra liquid this helps
prevent your egg roll again from being
soggy mix cool water with cornstarch to
make a slurry this is sort of your glue
you can also use an egg wash if you want
but I like using cornstarch and water
this is my very favorite brand of egg
roll wrappers or spring roll shells you
get these at the Asian market you'll
find them in the frozen section and
you'll defrost them in the frigerator
overnight or just leave them out on your
counter for about 45 minutes they're
incredibly thin and very very light and
they crisp up like crazy the wrappers
that you can find at regular
supermarkets that are not frozen there
you're usually near the tofu in the
vegetable aisle I don't like those at
all they're too thick they bubble up and
they're just it's just too doughy so I
always buy these wrappers have a good
brand that I also buy is called Spring
Hill tip keep them wrapped up in plastic
wrap or a damp paper towel because they
will dry out very easily and it's very
hard to roll make sure your work surface
is dry and clean that's also very
important lay down your wrapper in a
diamond shape
ape add about a heaping tablespoon of
filling you don't want to add too much
because it'll burst if you add too much
filling roll them up super super tight
put your finger right there to make a
fold a nice Hospital corner fold and
again on the other side and roll all the
way up now this is what you do not want
to do do you see how it looks a little
wide there and there's basically an
opening will oil can seep in it make
sure egg rolls very oily so you want to
make sure that you're folding them so
that there's no air bubbles no pockets
and no holes paint the remaining corners
with the cornstarch slurry and roll all
the way up and pulling back tugging back
just a bit every time just so that
you've got a very tight roll and that is
it okay I'll show you again step one is
to wipe down your surface lay down the
egg roll wrapper and have diamond shape
and add just about a heaping tablespoon
of filling into this corner bottom
corner right here roll up tightly roll
up that corner and tug back just a bit
just to make sure it's tight use your
finger to pinch fold over pinch fold
over and roll the West
rest of the way up paint the two corners
with the cornstarch slurry I'll show you
what it looks like it should look tight
small maybe about an inch and a quarter
in diameter and no visible holes put
them lay them flat on a baking sheet can
make sure you covered it with a damp
towel a very very damp towel or plastic
wrap to prevent them from drying is
another tip if you'd like to freeze them
freeze them just like this or just make
sure that they are all on a single layer
try not to have them touch freeze them
first and then once they're frozen you
can gather them up and put them in a
freezer bag if you try to squish them
too tight or have them overlapping while
in the freezer
they'll just freeze in a giant clump and
then you won't be able to get them apart
to end to cook them frozen all you have
to do is put them directly frozen into
the hot oil just be very careful you
don't need to defrost them okay back to
the fresh egg rolls I've got some hot
oil and I've got a baking sheet with a
to drain them and I'm gonna make sure
that the oil is hot enough here's the
tip that I learned from my mom
take a uncoated chopstick or a wooden
spoon the handle of a wooden spoon and
place it in the oil
I promise you're not going to damage
your chopstick or wooden spoon place it
into the oil and if you see no bubbles
it's not quite ready yet
when you do see bubbles that's when your
oil is hot enough to fry call the
ancient Chinese thermometer you can see
here that it's not quite ready yet
okay a couple minutes later you can see
bubbles coming out it's ready slide in
the egg rolls very carefully don't make
sure you don't splatter yourself and
just fry until Brown remember the
filling is already cooked inside we
stir-fried that earlier so really all
you're doing is browning the outside
what I also wanted to tell you how my
dad likes to enjoy the egg rolls you
take one bite from the egg roll and pour
in a little bit of Chinese black vinegar
or if you don't have Chinese black
vinegar just a little bit of balsamic
vinegar and the sweet tangy sharpness of
the vinegar oh it's perfect for Chinese
egg rolls for the full recipe or if you
have any questions at all head over to
steamy kitchen comm / 1:21 for more easy
Asian recipes head over to steamy
kitchen comm or pick up a copy of my
brand-new cookbook called steamy
kitchens healthy Asian favorites thanks
so much for watching if you want to get
more updates of when I release new
recipe videos make sure you subscribe to
my youtube channel